Friday 12th March 2021

MISSION: COMPLETE SAMPLING STRATEGY DOCUMENT AND SENT TO SUPERVISORS.

How will I achieve this?
1) Get indactive DOC ranges for Arctic glaciers - DONE
2) List methods for measuring DOC on glaciers - DONE
3) Get indicative anion/cation ranges for Arctic glaciers - DONE
4) Complete rationale for all analytes.
5) Look at the questions below. Answer as many as I can. Include the rest as questions in the document.
6) Email the document to James, Kate and Anne by 1.30pm.

SAMPLING QUESTIONS
DOC Questions:
1.	Are there enough glass jars in the lab to melt my samples for DOC?
2.	Can I get these jars prepped and shipped to Svalbard in time, or alternatively, can I bring them in my luggage? 
3.	Is it appropriate to use plastic syringes for DOC samples? 
4.	What other methods are community used for supraglacial DOC analysis, apart from using glass syringes/metal housing/glass fibre filters/HCl?
5.	If plastic syringes are not appropriate and there are no other alternatives, can I acquire glass syringes/metal housing/glass fibre filters/HCl and get the training to use them safely in the field? 

Cation/Anion Questions:
1.	Can I use plastic syringes for cation/anion samples?
2.	What volume will my cation/anion samples be?
3.	What filers do I need for cation/anion samples?
4.	Do I need to filter separate samples for cation/anion analysis?
5.	How can I get the right syringes/filters for my cation/anion samples? What do I need to do to prepare this equipment?
6.	Can I use ion chromatography (IC) at QMUL for anion analysis?
7.	Should I use automated colorimetric flow injection analysis for measuring phosphate instead of IC, due to IC limits of detection?
8.	Can I use inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry at QMUL for cation analysis?
9.	Do I have time to do this myself, or is it more practical to have this done elsewhere?

Microbial Questions: 
1.	Do I have all the equipment I need for collecting microbial samples?

Other Analyses Questions: 
1.	Is there a pH meter I can use that is sensitive enough?
2.	Is there a conductivity meter that is sensitive enough?
3.	Is there a GPS/elevation device I can use to record the location of my samples?


