Thursday 22nd April 2021

Done:
8hr PhD
Supervisor Meeting 11.30am UK time/12.30pm my time
Lab Meeting 2pm Uk time/3pm my time
Check emails

Video call with Ben 7pm UK time/8pm my time

Questions to answer:
RATIONAL
Why are community assembly processes important to the supraglacial environment?
What community assembly processes have already been identified for the supraglacial environment?
What is neutral theory? Why is it important?

HYPOTHESES AND QUESTIONS
Am I happy with my questions/hypotheses?
Why am I comparing abundant and rare taxa? What might I expect to see?
Why am I comparing bulk and active communities? What might I expect to see?
Why am I using this analysis workflow?

MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS
What other alpha diversities are there? Measure these and compare for each glacier. What can I conclude from these? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
What is the difference between the beta diversity ordination techniques? Which is most commonly used/most appropriate? What conclusions can we draw from these? Explain these methods in more detail. What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
Of the environmental plots, why might these variables be important? What do they mean for the communities? What can we infer from differences between glaciers? 
What is CAP analysis? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
Why is the ISAR important to study? What do my results show? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
How would I explore a DDR? What might my results show? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NEUTRAL MODEL
Why is Sloan's Neutral Model important?
Explain how Sloan's Neutral Model works.
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NULL MODEL
Why is Stegen's Phylogenetic Null Model important?
Explain how Stegen's Null Model works.
Why is phylogenetic signal important?
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NETWORK ANALYSIS
Why is network analysis important?
Explain how network analysis works.
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

To Do: 
Organise next supervisor meeting
Write up supervision notes
Finish Report
Respond/action James' email (PMA)
Re-book Oslo - Svalbard COVID test
Book taxi to Airport for Oslo-Svalbard Flight
Respond to Shazia email (received 19th April)
Respond to Slack posts
Apply for reimburment for costs: taxi, cvodi test leaving UK, luggage

Events:
Polar Early Career Conference 5th May - 6th May

Non-PhD:
Birthday present for Mum
Holiday booking for Mum
Birthday Present for Ben
Presents for everyone from Norway
Bea birthday present
Organise dog walking for Mum
Respond to Graftingardeners about trees
Apply for ESA
Pay off credit card
Use OceanParcels on Margaret's Data
Repond to other tree surgeons about not taking their business
Respond to Whatsapp Messages
Get litter picking info for Lauren and Fi
Chase up Eugene/Avon 
Make/publish one fundraising video
Make/publish one Norway/Svalbard video
