Thursday 22nd April 2021

Done:
1.5hr PhD

Today's Plan:
Supervisor Meeting 11.30am UK time/12.30pm my time
Lab Meeting 2pm Uk time/3pm my time
Video call with Ben 7pm UK time/8pm my time

Work plan:
Check emails

Questions to answer:
RATIONAL
Why are community assembly processes important to the supraglacial environment?
What community assembly processes have already been identified for the supraglacial environment?
What is neutral theory? Why is it important?

HYPOTHESES AND QUESTIONS
Am I happy with my questions/hypotheses?
Why am I comparing abundant and rare taxa? What might I expect to see?
Why am I comparing bulk and active communities? What might I expect to see?

MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS
Why am I using this analysis workflow?
What other alpha diversities are there? Measure these and compare for each glacier. What can I conclude from these? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
What is the difference between the beta diversity ordination techniques? Which is most commonly used/most appropriate? What conclusions can we draw from these? Explain these methods in more detail. What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
Of the environmental plots, why might these variables be important? What do they mean for the communities? What can we infer from differences between glaciers? 
What is CAP analysis? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
Why is the ISAR important to study? What do my results show? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?
How would I explore a DDR? What might my results show? What can we infer from this? What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NEUTRAL MODEL
Why is Sloan's Neutral Model important?
Explain how Sloan's Neutral Model works.
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NULL MODEL
Why is Stegen's Phylogenetic Null Model important?
Explain how Sloan's Neutral Model works.
Why is phylogenetic signal important?
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

NETWORK ANALYSIS
Why is network analysis important?
Explain how network analysis works.
What can we interpret from the results?
What would I expect to see for abundant/rare, active/bulk communities? What would I infer from this?

